I'll never get to sleep.
[MISMIS]
Iska, are you feeling okay?
Yeah, I'm fine.
But... I have had
trouble sleeping.
You know...
I feel bad I don't always
get to assist you in battle.
Which means...
I want to help however
I can otherwise.
Look at that face!
There's no hiding it.
I can tell something
is majorly bothering you.
Is that true?
It is!
So, go ahead and spill
those guts, soldier!
Our last battle.
It's haunting my thoughts.
Maybe because
it ended in a draw?
Or it could have scarred
you emotionally, right?
[ISKA]
Like, a trauma?
Yes.
After going through
an intense battle,
it's possible your psyche
is injured or bogged down
in subconscious fear.
I mean, you fought
the Ice Calamity.
That would have a lasting
effect on anyone.
Yeah. 'Bout that...
[MISMIS]
Yes?
No. It's nothing.
Huh.
I wonder how we can
get you to feel better.
I know what always picks me
up when I'm down.
Barbecue and a good
night's sleep.
Which luckily go hand in hand.
We may be different
in that respect.
Fair enough, but I still
think a change of scenery
is a good idea.
I know!
It's a little messy,
but come in.
[ISKA] Your stuffed animal
collection has exploded.
[MISMIS laughs]
Right? They're so cute.
Yeah. But, um...
Those... are new. Sorry.
I didn't mean to see.
[MISMIS]
No!
Ahem. Right then.
You won't get any better
if you're cooped up inside.
What you need is
a little vacation.
[ISKA]
A ticket to the opera?
It's the "Tragic Love of
Female Knight Beatrix."
They perform it in
Neutral City every year.
It's one of my favorites.
I've used nine out of ten of
my season tickets already.
This last one is for you!
Uh... but when would I go?
Soon, before our next mission.
Like, tomorrow!
Yeah. Great.
Have fun!
That's an order from
your captain.
[CROSSWEIL]
Keep them safe.
Those swords are the only
hope we have of restoring
this fractured world.
[NENE]
Look who's awake.
We're almost to Ein.
Already? How?
You've been out cold.
I've basically been talking
to myself the entire drive.
[ISKA]
Sorry.
I was actually dreaming
of my Master.
Or, maybe it was a nightmare.
Jhin and I were going through
some intense training.
[NENE]
That brings back memories.
I thought you hadn't dreamt of
Master Cro in forever, though.
[ISKA] Probably because I
haven't used the astral swords
in a while.
Goodbye, Beatrix.
My dearest,
I cannot be with you.
Yes. Goodbye, Azel.
When we meet again, it will not
be in a church like this,
but on a battlefield.
[ALICE]
Azel, you fool.
How can you do this to
the woman that you love?
[RIN]
Please keep it down.
Where is your handkerchief?
[ALICE] I'm afraid it's
already soaking wet.
[RIN]
Contain yourself.
[ISKA] The performance seems
to have devastated the girl
in front of me.
I can't focus on anything else.
Here, Miss. Please, take mine.
[ALICE]
Oh?
Why, thank you so much.
[AUDIENCE claps]
[ALICE] Um... I apologize,
but I think this is ruined.
Please, allow me
to pay you, sir.
[ISKA]
Oh, no, it's not a big deal.
It was cheap and I've got‐‐
Hold on. What're you doing here?
Did you follow me to this seat?
The Empire's reached a new low.
Fine. I'm ready for round two.
Lady Alice, you mustn't.
We're in a Neutral City.
Conflict between our factions
is strictly prohibited.
I am well aware.
If I attacked him now, all the
rest of the Neutral cities
would doubtlessly
turn against us.
It would be a catastrophe.
That said...
I can't believe that
you're stalking me.
No wonder I felt so unsettled.
Oh?
Is that why you spent the
entire performance weeping?
[ALICE]
Huh?! What?
No, my eyes were just sweating.
You'll forget what you
saw today. Got it?
Lady Alice.
Raising your voice will
only draw more attention.
Yes. Right. We should go.
Good day to you, Iska.
Uh, sure. To you, too, I guess.
My Lady.
[ALICE]
Oh, uh...
Don't look at me like that.
It was a force of habit!
[ALICE] I think my heart
stopped when I saw him.
[RIN] You took the words
right out of my mouth.
Though I was more concerned
that you were going
to start a war.
He'd better not follow us.
No. The swordsman
didn't move after we left.
We should be far ahead of him
by this point, my lady.
I'm still in shock.
The audacity of that swordsman.
[RIN] We should have guessed the
Empire would try something.
Yes, I suppose.
Let's forget about this
and find some food.
There's a famous pasta place
right around the corner.
[WAITRESS A] I'm sorry, ma'am,
but all our tables are reserved.
If you don't mind sharing
with someone else,
I can seat you at
a booked table.
Is that all right?
Yes, that's fine.
[WAITRESS A]
Here we are.
Thank you.
What? No! Are you kidding me?
That's exactly what
I was thinking.
[coughs] My water went
down the wrong pipe.
Try to breathe.
Coward! You'd ambush us?
[ISKA]
No, you've got it wrong.
[RIN] What else would
you be doing here?
This was just the closest
restaurant to the opera house.
It's got great reviews.
Besides, I had a reservation
booked, you can ask the host.
What do you think? We leave?
He does have a point.
Don't let your guard down, Rin.
He's a fiend.
Um... You do realize
I'm still here.
And you're not whispering.
Lady Alice. Is this wise?
This is neutral territory.
But to dine with an
Imperial soldier is...
If we left at this point,
it would look like we
were frightened and ran.
Yes. It might.
Let's just order.
My apologies.
Oh, no. It's my fault.
So, um... Please. Go ahead.
I will allow you
to look at it first.
I can wait. Don't take all day.
[ISKA]
Here. We'll do this.
Hey...
What? Is there some
kind of problem?
Do you know what you want?
Yes, I do. I think we're ready.
[WAITRESS A]
Coming!
[ALICE, ISKA] Salmon and
zucchini over noodles with
heavy cream.
I'd like the pasta to be
cooked ben cotta.
I'll have tea after
the meal, please.
One sugar cube.
The two of you seem
to be in perfect sync.
You must be quite close.
[ALICE, ISKA]
Not at all!
So, then. You like pasta?
Me?
Who else would I be asking?
Yeah, I do.
It's probably my favorite food.
I love it with a rich sauce
like what we're eating,
but it's also great with pepper.
Tossed in oil.
Oh, yes. You're so right.
A simple but delicious plating.
And when it's hot out,
cold noodles make for
the perfect refreshing dish.
Really?
I'm a big fan of that, too.
If I find cherry tomatoes
at the market, I add those!
[ALICE]
Now you're talking!
Cold pasta and tomatoes?
That really hits the spot.
I swear I could eat that
every day in the summer.
Lady Alice.
It appears that you
have stopped eating.
I'm sorry. I got carried away.
Yeah. Me, too.
Also, pasta should always
be cooked al dente.
You have unrefined palates.
[ISKA, ALICE]
Ben cotta is best for sure!
[RIN] It might be wise to keep
the day's events to yourself,
Lady Alice.
Though, normally, I would
report the incident
to Her Majesty.
There was no fight,
but we still encountered
an Imperial Soldier.
No need to remind me.
[RIN]
That belongs to an enemy.
Best to throw it out.
[ALICE]
I know, but...
That swordsman is a beast.
Given his ferocity,
he could one day become your
most significant opponent.
[ALICE] Don't act as if you're
not to blame for what happened.
[RIN]
What do you mean?
Have you forgotten?
You made that rude
comment about how pasta
should be cooked al dente.
It forced me to form a
culinary alliance with him.
[RIN] I merely stated
a well‐known fact.
Al dente is preferred.
No chef would argue that.
[ALICE]
Shut up!
[ALICE, ISKA]
This is torture.
Why is it so hard
to fall asleep tonight?
[MISMIS panting]
[MISMIS]
Water... I need water!
[JHIN]
So drink some.
You should be training
to hydrate without breaking
your stride.
[MISMIS] But I already
finished all of mine.
Please, Jhin. Just a little sip.
I'm begging you!
[JHIN]
You'll get a cramp.
[MISMIS]
Why are you such a meanie?!
[RISYA]
Hey, there!
[MISMIS yells]
Oh, it's just you, Risya.
Issy, Nens, Jhin‐Jhin!
Hi, guys! It's been a while!
[ISKA]
Oh, hey!
I heard you're the Special
Defense for Humankind HQ's
special counsel now.
That's amazing.
[RISYA]
It's not overly impressive.
[JHIN]
Perfect.
What kind of trouble have
you brought for us today?
Well, it's good news.
Starting with the next mission,
your unit will be serving
under my command!
Aww.
What? Aren't you thrilled?
It's just that...
You've got such a
gigantic brain, Risya.
What if I don't understand
your strategies?
Please, you'll be fine.
I reviewed your reports on
the engagement in Nelka.
It's obvious, your unit's
abilities remain as sharp
as ever.
I've also heard that you've
been having a difficult
time sleeping, Issy.
Just a little.
Did you not have a
good time at the opera?
Oh, no, that was perfect.
I appreciate it.
A tragic love story
can still be happy.
Even though Risya
thinks they're boring.
I simply don't have a
disposition that's inclined
to appreciate or understand art.
Speaking of...
Why don't you take this?
The Salil Viblanc art exhibit?
[RISYA] I won the ticket in
a game with a subordinate,
but it would be wasted on me.
Use it. I insist.
In Ein, huh?
Apologies, Mother.
I know I'm late.
[MILLAVAIR]
Alice. We need to talk.
You recently battled against
an Imperial swordsman.
I'm told he was as fierce
as a Saint Disciple.
[ALICE]
That's right.
You're sure?
Soldiers of that rank
are strong and protect
the Emperor himself.
You believe he was
that talented, yes?
What's the matter?
Why do you seem so alarmed?
[MILLAVAIR]
Look above, daughter.
One hundred years ago.
The Founder fought tens of
thousands of Imperial soldiers
on her own, and yet...
...life still courses
through her body.
The Founder had a
younger twin sister.
None other than
Nebulis the First.
The royal bloodline
began with her.
She is our noble ancestor.
Of course, the Empire never
knew that the so‐called
"Grand Witch" had a sibling.
Thinking their most feared enemy
had left this mortal plane,
they rejoiced when Nebulis
the first passed away.
[RIN]
The bind is weakening.
How is that possible?
[MILLAVAIR]
We first noticed recently.
Alice.
When you fought against
the swordsman of the Empire
in the Nelka forest,
something changed in her.
[ALICE]
What does that mean?
[MILLAVAIR] Astral power
responds if its host is
in danger.
Records tell us that long ago,
when the Imperial Army
reached the Sovereignty,
many types of these energies
reacted in tandem.
The Founder's astral power
could be doing the same thing.
An omen of her awakening.
Alice, do you know what
could have caused this?
Awaken.
[MILLAVAIR] Many mysteries
remain in regard to the
Founder's powers.
I will have the Astral
Institution look into this
at once.
Daughter,
you shall refrain from
going into battle.
At least until we know
who this swordsman is.
[ALICE]
Understood.
My Lady, are you troubled?
What? Oh... No.
I have to stop overthinking
our recent concerns.
I'm not getting enough sleep.
I need a change of scenery.
Don't tell me.
The Neutral city again?
What if Imperial agents
are waiting?
I won't go to the opera.
And that was just a coincidence.
This time I'll actually
enjoy my time away.
[RIN]
What do you have planned?
[ALICE]
This is absurd.
I can't believe you're
still stalking me!
[ISKA] Wait, Alice?
Why are you here?
We're even going to
the same exhibition?
I don't understand your goal.
Why are you in the
Neutral city so often?
Shouldn't you be back at
home protecting the Empire?
Do you know who Viblanc is?
An impressionist painter
from the Empire.
I'm happy to support his show.
It's stranger that you're
supporting an Imperial artist.
Art has no borders, you fool.
Yeah. That's true.
I think the museum
is pretty close by.
Shall we?
Sure.
Wait, back off! You tricked me.
I'll go my own way.
Hey, wait. But that's not...
[ALICE gasps]
Jeez.
This may be known
as the city of art.
But it's definitely not
a picture of cleanliness.
[yells]
Rin. Help me. I think I'm lost.
[ISKA]
Alice?
What?
Why do you keep popping up?
Didn't you go to the show?
[ISKA] Yeah, I walked
through most of it.
But I didn't see you around.
So I kind of figured that you
might've lost your way.
I'll take you there.
[ALICE]
We mustn't!
I'm the princess of
the Nebulis Sovereignty,
and you're a swordsman
of the Empire!
[ISKA]
Right. A princess.
I'd almost forgotten.
There's no reason to try
and hide it now, I suppose.
Anyway. You and I are enemies.
It's inappropriate for us
to consort with each other.
I thought you told me
art has no borders.
Or do you not believe that?
[ALICE]
I wanted to see this piece.
Iska?
Yes?
[ALICE] Tell me.
Why do you like this artist?
[ISKA] See how the paint
is extra thick in this spot?
It's only my imagination,
but maybe he paused
for a moment right here,
then added more
with a painting knife.
And here, look at this.
That's a completely
different shade.
A re‐do.
I wonder... did the image
change in his head
as he worked?
What drove the changes?
What spark fired in his brain?
Viblanc only paints landscape.
Cities, streets, boating docks.
There are no people
in his works.
But they're alive nonetheless.
His subjects are inorganic
and the palette is dark, but...
You can still feel his passion.
Right.
I can see his
personality in his art.
I think that's why I like it.
I get that. I agree.
Here, for showing me around.
You didn't have to do that.
I don't want to owe anyone.
Especially you.
It wasn't a big deal, honestly.
And it's not like I'm broke.
What is it?
Turns out... I was wrong.
You're so foolish.
Just enjoy the drink. 'Kay?
Now we're even.
Hey, how old are you, anyway?
Sixteen, and you?
I'm older, though not by much.
Sorry, I was tired.
[ALICE]
We're enemies. Idiot.
In fact, if I wanted to...
I could end you right now.
[GREAT APOSTLE] That concludes
deliberations for the day.
We will reinstate Iska, the
Successor of the Black Steel,
as a Saint Disciple.
Under the condition
that he captures
the Ice Calamity Witch.